the adult or permanent dentition
consists of 32 total teeth here we
divide the dentition into four different
quadrants we have the upper right the
upper left the lower left and the lower
right quadrant each containing 8 teeth
from a mesial or towards the midline to
a distal direction the teeth are the
central incisor the lateral incisor the
canine two premolars the first premolar
and the second premolar and three molars
the first molar the second molar and the
third molar
here we will be reviewing the rules of
the universal tooth numbering system
using a diagram of permanent dentition
the universal numbering system is
sequential from number one to number 32
beginning from the patient's upper right
side going all the way across to the
patient's upper left side coming down
the patient's lower left side and going
all the way across the patient's lower
right side the upper arch contains
number 1 through 16 while the lower arch
contains teeth number 17 through 32
for example the upper left canine this
tooth pointed with the laser is the
eleventh tooth count from the upper
right third molar as we count to number
one to number two to number three to
number four five six seven eight nine
ten eleven tooth
is the upper left canine next we will be
reviewing the rules of the international
tooth system using the same diagram the
international numbering system utilizes
two digits the first digit corresponds
to the quadrant number
the upper right quadrant is designated
quadrant number one the upper left
quadrant is designated quadrant number
two the lower left quadrant is
designated quadrant number three and the
lower right quadrant is designated
quadrant number four the second digit
corresponds to the tooth within each
quadrant in this case the most mesial
tooth or the central incisor is given
the designation of one while the most
distal tooth or the third molar is given
the designation of tooth eight with this
lateral incisor to the canine 3 the
first premolar for second premolar five
first molar six and second molar seven
for example the upper left canine as
pointed with the laser and arrow is in
the second quadrant and is the third
tooth counting from a mesial direction
therefore the upper left canine is given
international tooth two three